So let's talk about Amazon Aurora because the exam is starting to ask you a lot of question about it. Now that you don't need deep knowledge on it, you need an, an item overview to understand exactly how it works. This is what I'm going to give you in this lecture. Aurora is going to be a proprietary technology from AWS. It's not open sourced, but they made it so it's going to be compatible with Postgres and MySQL, and basically your Aurora database will have compatible drivers. That means that if you connect as if you were connecting to Postgres or MySQL database, then it will work. Aurora is very special, and I won't go too into the internals, but they made it cloud optimized and by doing a lot of optimization and smart stuff, basically they get five x performance improvements over MySQL on RDS or three x performance of PostgreSQL on RDS. Not just that, but in many different ways, they also get more performance improvements. To me, I watch it, it's really, really smart, but I won't go into the details of it. Now, Aurora storage automatically grows, and I think this is one of the main features that is quite awesome. You start at ten gigabytes, but as you ask, as you put more data to your database, it grows automatically. Up to two hundred and fifty-six terabytes. Again, this has to do with how you design it, but the awesome thing is that now as a DP, as a DP or a Ceph, you don't need to worry about monitoring your disk, just know it will grow automatically over time. Aurora can have up to fifteen read replicas, and the replication process is going to be faster than MySQL. You will see sub ten millisecond replica lag typically. Now, if you fail over an Aurora, it was going to be instantaneous, so it's going to be much faster than a failover from Multi-AZ on MySQL RDS. And because it's cloud native by default, you get high high availability Now, although the cost is a little bit more than RDS, about twenty percent more, it is so, more, it's so much more efficient that at scale, it makes a lot more sense for savings. So let's talk about the aspect that are super important, which is high availability and rescaling. So Aurora is special because it's going to store six copies of your data, anytime you write anything, across three AZ. And so Aurora is made such as it's available, so it only needs four copy out of six for write, so that means that if one AZ is down, you're fine, and it only needs you have three copy out of six Needed for reads, so again, that means that it's highly available for reads. There is some kind of self-healing process that happens, which is quite cool, which is that if some data is corrupted or, or bad, then it does self-healing with peer-to-peer replication in the backend, and it's quite cool. And you don't rely on just one volume, you rely on hundreds of volumes, again, that's something we do manage. It happens in the backend, but that means that you just reduce the risk by so much. So if you look at it from a diagram perspective, you have three AZ, and you have a shared storage volume, but it's a logical volume, and it has replication, self-healing, and auto-expanding, which is a lot of features. So if you were to write some data, maybe blue data, you'll see six copies of it in three different AZ. Then if you write some orange data, again, six copies of it in different AZ. And then as you write more and more data, it's basically going to go again, six copies of it in three different AZ. The cool thing is that it goes on different volumes, and it's striped, and it works really, really well. Now, all you need to know about storage, and that, that's it. But you don't actually interface with the storage, it's just a design that Amazon made, and I want to give it to you as well so you understand what Aurora does. Now, Aurora It's like Multi AZ for RDS. Basically, there's only one instance that takes writes, so there's a master in Aurora, and that's what will take writes. And then if the master doesn't work, the failover will happen in less than thirty seconds on average. So it's really, really quick failover. And on top of the master, you can have up to fifteen read replicas, all serving reads, so you can have a lot of them, and this is how you scale your read workload. And so any of these read replicas can become the master in case the master fails, so it's quite different from how RDS works. But by default, you only have one master. The cool thing about these read replicas is that it supports cross-region replication. So if you look at Aurora on the right-hand side of the diagram, this is what you should remember: one master, multiple replicas, and the storage is gonna be replicated, self-healing, auto-expanding, little blocks by little blocks. Now, let's have a look at how Aurora is as a cluster. This is more around how Aurora works when you have clients, how do you interface with all these instances? So as we said, we have a shared storage volume that is auto-expanding. Your master is the only thing that will write to your storage, and because the master can change and fail over, what Aurora provides you is what's called a writer endpoint. So it's a DNS name, a writer endpoint, and it's always pointing to the master. So even if the master fails over, your client still talks to the writer endpoint and is automatically redirected to the right instance. Now, as I said before, you also have a lot of read replicas. What I didn't say is that they can have auto scaling on top of these read replicas. So you can have one up to fifteen read replicas, and you can set up auto scaling, such as you always have the right number of read replicas. Now, because you have auto scaling, it can be really, really hard for your applications to keep track of where are your replicas, what's the URL, how do I connect to them. So for it, you have to remember this absolutely for going for the exam. There is something called a reader endpoint. And the reader endpoint has the exact same feature as a writer endpoint. It helps with connection load balancing, and it connects automatically to all the replicas. So anytime the client connects to the reader endpoint, it will get connected to one of the replicas, and there will be load balancing done this way. Make sure just notice that the, the load balancing happens at the connection level. At the statement level. So this is how it works for Aurora. Remember, writer endpoint, reader endpoint, remember, auto-scaling, remember, shared storage volume that auto-expands, remember this diagram, 'cause once you get it, you'll understand how Aurora works. Now, if we go deep into the feature, you get a lot of things I already told you: automatic failover, backup and recovery, isolation and security, industry compliance, push-button scaling, by auto-scaling automated patching with zero downtime, so it's kind of cool that I'm already gonna do it in the backend. Now, advanced monitoring, routine maintenance, so all these things are handled for you, and you also get this feature called Backtrack. Which is giving you the ability to restore data at any point of time and actually doesn't use rely on backups, it relies on something different, but you can always say, "I want to go back to yesterday at four PM," and you say, "Oh, no, actually I wanted to get to do yesterday at five PM," and it will work as well, which is super, super neat. So that's it for Aura, and I will see you in the next lecture.