A very important tool in the world of AWS vector stores is Amazon S3 Vectors. Yes, they have integrated vector search with S3 itself, and as you can imagine, that makes it a whole lot cheaper because S3 is a pretty cheap service and a lot simpler too. And yeah, it's a good tool. All you have to do is create an S3 Vector bucket, and you'll see that right in the S3 UI alongside with other buckets you can create, and that's just a specialized bucket where you can store vector data, structured information that includes both your metadata and your embedding vectors for the stuff that you want to search from bedrock knowledge bases or whatever else you want to do semantic search with. Once you have that bucket created, you then create a vector index where you specify how many dimensions you want in each vector and also which distance metric you want to use, like the cosine distance metric or whatever it might be. And that's pretty much it. From there on, S3 manages everything pretty much for you. You just store data in there, and there's a put vectors API that allows you to store your vector embeddings. It's up to you to create those using whatever embedding model you want, probably using a Bedrock model. And you can also include whatever metadata you want as well. So in addition to the actual thing you're indexing with that vector, you can also include any other metadata you might You might want to filter on for hybrid search Approaches as well. Once that's in there, you just use Query Vectors API to actually query those vector embeddings and get the closest semantic hit, whatever it is you're looking for. And like I said, S3 manages all the complexity for you. Under the hood, it's gonna be constantly optimizing that, and you won't have to worry about optimizing and tweaking all the dials that you have to do with OpenSearch and whatnot. By the way, that ninety percent cheaper metric is probably compared to open source. They don't really say, but that's This diagram at the bottom kinda walks you through it. You just upload your vector data and any metadata as well to your vector bucket that's associated with a vector index, and that can integrate directly with Bedrock, SageMaker Unified UI, or the Amazon OpenSearch service as well, as you'll see, you can actually use S3 vectors as a backend for OpenSearch too. Just to make this more real, here's what an actual PUT request looks like if you're using the boto3 API via Amazon AWS CLI. You just say PUT underscore vectors, you specify the bucket name that you created earlier and the index name you created earlier. And then you shove in your vectors. So you see we have keys associated with each one to look it up by. The actual embedding vector itself is under data there, in this case they're thirty-two bit floating point vectors, and those vectors themselves are just an array of numbers, floating point numbers, and then whatever metadata you want to attach to that, so perhaps the original text that's associated with that, genre information, whatever you can dream up, you can search by that as well. Also, quick note, you don't have to use the AWS CLI. There's also a specialized command line tool called S3 Vectors Embed CLI that is mentioned in the official documentation. So this is an alternative interface if you just want something simpler and purpose-built, and it's in GitHub, is open source, so you can just go ahead and get it from GitHub from the AWS Labs repository. It has the S3 Vectors Embed Put command, and that does exactly what it sounds like on the tin. It converts your text or your images to embedding vectors using Bedrock, and then stores them all in one call from the command line. And if you want to do a query, you can just say, "Hey, S3VectorsEmbedQuery, I want to create an embedding vector for your query using the same model, then query your underlying S3 vector index to get the closest hits." There are a few nuances, I doubt they'll appear on the exam, but if you do want to explore the GitHub repository, you can see a little preview of it on the right here. There is a little bit more depth to it, but I think that's So just at a high level, again, what we're doing here is generating your own vectors with an embedding model and storing them. So S3 Vectors itself doesn't create your embeddings for you. It's up to you to create those embedding vectors yourself using your favorite embedding model and make sure that's consistent with what you're using for queries as well. And however, there is a full integration with Bedrock knowledge bases. So if you don't wanna think about all those details when you're creating a Bedrock knowledge base, you do have the option of using the S3 Vector Store under the hood to back that. And in that case, it will manage all this for you. You just upload your data, and it worries about all the stuff under the hood. You're still gonna be prompted to create your own vector bucket along the way, and we'll see that. but yeah, that's the easy way to go about it where you really don't have to think about it. If you're just using Bedrock knowledge bases and using that to integrate with Bedrock agents or whatever it is. That can manage all that little bit of complexity for you. Also, it integrates with Bedrock within SageMaker Unified Studio, so if you're using Bedrock within Unified Studio and SageMaker, you can also use S3 vectors in that context as well. Some more specifics about S3 vectors, 'cause it is an important component here, you might be expected to know some details on it. First of all, they are strongly consistent, so as soon as you add data to a S3 vector bucket to its index, it will be immediately queryable and immediately available. Also, as I mentioned the vector data is automatically optimized over time, so you don't have to worry about tweaking those performance dials, it will do it for you. But what they're optimizing for is specifically price performance, so they're trying to save you money. And this is where the trade-offs come into play, this is important, folks. So the actual performance of an S3 vector query is only, at best case scenario, one hundred milliseconds, and worst case, up to one second. They only guarantee sub-second performance, okay? So that's the price you're paying, that's why you're getting that ninety percent discount there. So they would like you to use OpenSearch Serverless as your vector store for Bedrock knowledge bases or whatever it is for performance-critical stuff Defining performance critical as less than one hundred millisecond response time, they call that a tiered search strategy, and the devil's in the details of this. So what they recommend is if you have infrequently queried vectors, maybe S3 vectors is an appropriate place for that, but for stuff that's getting hit really often, you probably wanna pony up the money and the complexity of OpenSearch for that just to get that better performance. Now, S3 vectors does have some built-in connectivity with OpenSearch for that purpose, so there is a way to easily export data from S3 into OpenSearch to move data back and forth that way. But that, that's doing an actual copy, it's not actually linking the two together in that mode. So if you're not careful, you could end up paying for both if you don't remember to delete that data from S3 Vectors when you're done and stop querying it from S3 Vectors once it's moved into OpenSearch. So again, that that is on you to make sure you're not falling into that pitfall. However, there is also a, a mode where you can use S3 Vectors with OpenSearch as the backend, and this isn't a hybrid approach, this is basically saying, "I want OpenSearch functionality, but I'm okay with that one hundred millisecond to one second response time." So it is possible to configure an OpenSearch managed cluster, this only works with managed clusters, to use S3 vectors as its backend. Okay, so that gives you OpenSearch functionality using S3 vectors as the backend. This might be useful if you have an application that was built on top of OpenSearch as a vector store, but you wanna save money and you don't really care so much about the performance implications of that. As far as its limits, they're pretty generous, so you can have up to ten thousand indices per bucket, up to two billion vectors per index, so that comes out to what, two trillion vectors per bucket per Probably more than you'll ever need, so don't worry about that part of it too much. Some recommended best practices for optimizing S3 vectors performance, again important. one bit of advice is to use batches when you can. So if you're inserting or deleting vectors all at once, you can have up to five hundred requests per API call and batch them all up for better performance. It's gonna be a lot faster than doing them one at a time. And if you do need to use smaller batches, use concurrent requests. They don't have to be all done sequentially, they can be run in parallel. That way you can actually get up to the maximum request throughput of twenty-five hundred vectors per second. Going that route. Also, there is a throughput limit on how many operations you can do per index, so if you aren't gonna be doing more than a few hundred per second, make sure you have a retry mechanism in place, because if you do exceed the throughput limit on a specific index, you're gonna get back a 429 error saying that, "Oh, I can't handle that that throughput. We can't, you gotta scale things back." So important to have some sort of an exponential backoff mechanism and retry mechanism if you do hit that kind of throughput. Also, use multiple indices when you can. A lot of these limits are per index, so having more index will improve your per index performance and also give you more performance overall. Also, if you have requirements for data isolation or multi-tenancy, multiple indices can help with those requirements as well. So if you have different types of data that are used for different applications, probably makes sense to keep them in different indices for best performance and best isolation. Also, a performance trick, if you have a metadata field that doesn't need to be filtered, mark it as non-filterable. If you just have some data that you need to retrieve but you don't need to search by it. Marketing that explicitly is non-filterable will improve your performance.