So now let's talk about time to live. And time to live allows you to automatically delete items after an expiry timestamp. So the idea is that you have a column you'll define, and then when you say the time of right now goes over the, the value of this column, then please remove the item. So having an item being deleted by a time to live constraint doesn't consume any WCU, so there's no extra cost, and this timestamp must be a number that represents the Unix epoch timestamp value, as we'll see in the hands-on. Now, expired items won't be expired right away. There's a guarantee that they will be expired within forty-eight hours of the expiration, okay? But in real life, it's actually pretty good. So if we look at a table, for example, a session data table that has two columns, user ID and session ID, we want to add an expiry time, which is going to be the TTL of our table, and we're going to define when each session will expire. What happens is that when you go and there is an expiration process in DynamoDB, it will look at the current time and say the current time is this, and it will mark, scan the table and expire items that are going to obviously have a TTL epoch time less than the time right now. And then the second process will scan and delete these items from the table, and this is how TTL works. Now, these expired items that haven't been deleted will still appear in the reads query and scan, so if you don't want them, you need to do some client side filtering, so there could be some expired items already in your queries, you need to wait at, at up to forty hours to see it being deleted. And when the items are deleted, they're also deleted from your index. So your local secondary indexes and your global secondary indexes, and a delete operation for each expired item enters the DynamoDB stream. That means that any item that gets attached to TTL will be in that stream, and you can recover it if you wanted to. Now, the use cases for TTL would be to reduce stored data by keeping only current items, to adhere to regulatory obligations, or for example, for the session data, it is a perfect use case of TTL. Okay, so let's have a look at how we can define a TTL in DynamoDB. So let's go ahead and create the table, and I'll call this one the TTL. Now, the partition key is going to be user ID, and we don't need a sort key right now. Okay, we'll keep we'll customize the settings, we'll set provisioned and autoscaling off, we'll have one RCU and one WCU, and then we'll go ahead and create this table. So my table is now created, and what I'm going to do is just add a little bit of data. So I'm going to insert some items. I'm going to create an item. User ID is John, one, two, three, and then I'm going to add an attribute. For example, name is going to be John, and then I want to have an expire on attribute. So expire on, and actually it's not a string, it's going to be a number. So we'll do expire on, and then we need to give an expiration date to John. So I'll call it App Converter Online, and let's just