So now let's talk about DynamoDB Accelerator or DAX. DAX is a fully managed, highly available, and seamless in-memory cache for DynamoDB. The idea is that you're going to cache the most popular data, and therefore you're going to get microsecond latency for cached reads and queries. It doesn't require you to change any of your application logic, it's compatible with the existing DynamoDB APIs, and you just create a DAX cluster, and you're good to go. Now, DAX, what does it solve? It solves the hot key problem. So if you're reading a very specific key or a very specific item many, many times, then you may get throttling on your RCU. But if it's cached by DAX, then you've just solved that problem. So let's have an example. We have DynamoDB, it's made of tables, and our application is trying to access these tables. Now, in We're going to create a DAX cluster, which is made of cache nodes, and we have to provision them in advance. Now, the application will directly interact with the DAX cluster, and the DAX cluster will fetch the data from the DynamoDB table. So by default, that means that some data is going to be cached, and if it's in cache, and if it's in TTL, so the TTL is going to be five minutes, so by default, every cached data will live for five minutes in your DAX cluster. Now, the DAX cluster is made of nodes, and so therefore, you have to provision them, and you can have up to ten nodes in the cluster, and it's a good idea to be in a multi-AZ kind of setup, to have at least three nodes recommended in production, so one in each AZ. And DAX is fully secure, so you have encryption at rest, you have IAM authentication, VPC security, cloud trail integration, and so on. So remember, DAX is here to help you cache the most popular items or queries from DynamoDB. Now, the question we have is what's the difference between DynamoDB, Accelerator, so DAX, and ElasticCache? Well, they can be used as a combination, and the exam may test you on figuring out if it's best to use DynamoDB, DAX, or if you want to use ElasticCache. So with DAX, what you're going to do is that you're going to have a cache for individual objects or for your queries or your scans. This is very, very handy, and this is what I call simple types of queries, so your objects, your queries, and your scans. But if you're doing some kind of logic application-wise, you know, you're like doing a scan and then you're doing the sum and then you're filtering out some data and so on, and you don't want to do this every single time because this is computationally expensive, what you can do is you can store the result Results of whatever your application just did in Amazon ElastiCache and retrieve the data from ElastiCache directly instead of re-querying DAX and re-performing the application client side. So this could be a good way to actually use them both together in an architecture. Okay, so now let's go ahead and see how we can create a DAX cluster.