Alright, we've talked about OpenSearch at a general level and how it's generally useful for search, but how is it specifically useful for generative AI? Well, as we've seen before, Bedrock Vector Stores have a prominent option for using OpenSearch as your vector store. It has a backup store capability now too Not only that, it can be serverless as well. Now, a note that serverless isn't the same thing as scale to zero, and you might wonder the hard way. A serverless vector store up and running, you're still gonna get billed a few hundred dollars a month even if you're not using it. Be aware of that that's not gonna be in the exam, I don't think, but just telling you that for your own safety. However, the exam in its current form, at least treats open search as kind of the primary implementation for backing in bedrock knowledge base. Personally, I think that might get subsumed by the new S3 vectors feature, which is actually a much easier and simpler way of doing this now using S3 versus the rotated S3 instead. Take vectors out of this That's my opposite. Just a little bit Just put the ID in your head, that's the review ID Now, Vector's stores and open search aren't limited to Bedrock models Instead of a vector store and open search, you can use that with other systems as well, of course. If you have a system like Safegraph AI, something built on top of a Hugging Face model or your own custom models for these retrieval and data generation, you can also integrate them into those systems It's not just revenue Now something else that might be in the exam is semantic versus hybrid search. So semantic is kind of what we do by default, right? So we say, "Here's a chunk of text that I converted into a density vector, go find me the closest density vector that you have and get the chunk of data associated with that." So that is semantic search, we're just strictly doing vector comparisons there on embedding vectors. However, as we've seen, that has some challenges in getting the right relevant data, so if we combine that with kind of a keyword search, maybe we can get even better results. So one idea would be to use a hybrid approach where we combine embedding keyword search together. Now that requires you're gonna need to index your keywords for metadata in addition to these vectors as well but it's a, a powerful technique for actually improving the relevancy of your results. Results from the vector store, so we don't just search for embeddings, we also search for the actual keyword matches as well Now, getting into the nitty gritty of OpenSearch, there are three high level engines that we can use for vector search in OpenSearch. There are Facebook AI Similarity, F-A-I-S-S for short, is what most people use, non-metric space library, and then Apache Lucene, and a couple of ways of using it. How do I actually do that vector search? Fundamentally, I need to find the closest embedding vector to an embedding vector that I'm giving it. One way is exact nearest neighbor search, but as you can imagine, that's pretty slow. That requires me to compute the distance from my vector to every other vector. Find the smallest distance. You don't wanna do that in the real world. There's a much faster approach called approximate nearest neighbor, which is generally good enough, it might not be perfect, but for the purposes, it's worth the trade-off. And there are two choices here on how to configure that. One algorithm for ANN is hierarchical navigable small world, or HNSW for short, and then there's inverted file or IDF. So the difference here that you wanna remember is that HNSW is fast, but it uses a lot of RAM. So if you have a really huge dataset, it might not scale so well. If you do have a ton of data or a really huge dataset, IDF might be a better choice where you're gonna be trading off recall performance for that extra speed and memory performance. So if you have a huge dataset and RAM is an issue, IDF is your choice. Otherwise, if you value speed and efficiency over everything else, HNSW is the one that you want. You can tune HNSW further as well. there are many parameters, but these are the three that you should know. One is M, which is just how many edges per node are used by the algorithm, and you need to Just know that the higher m results in more memory usage, so it results in a denser graph, higher recall, but at the expense of more memory. Then there's EF underscore construction, and that is the size of the dynamic list used for the k and n graph internally. K and n is k nearest neighbors, it's a machine learning algorithm, less than every point. But the higher EF construction value you have, the slower your indexing will be, but your, your graph Then there's EF underscore search, which is how thoroughly we explore that ground. So as you can imagine, a higher value will give you higher recall values, you know, better quality, but it will slow down your search performance. So just remember what the trade-offs are here of these different parameters for each instance. And some more finer points of using open search as your vector store, just random things that might show up on the exam. there are different vector compression techniques. So different ANN methods have their own techniques for vector compression, and it's good that you can do this. And you can imagine, you know, typically you have a thousand or more dimensions per vector, and if you're just encoding like a three hundred character chunk of text with a thousand dimensions, you're, you're using more space for the embeddings than for the data itself. It's a little bit weird, but they do have vector compression techniques that can help with that. And typically that's done under the hood, so, you know, you don't have to think about that too much. But there are a few techniques you should know about. One is binary vectors. So if I convert those floating point dimension values to just bit sequences, I can save a lot of space, right? So compared to a thirty-two bit floating point number, if I can compress that down to a single bit, I've saved thirty-two, thirty-two x compression there. Now these aren't gonna be useful embeddings by their own, but they can be useful for fast distance search, so it's a useful tool for accelerating these lookups. And something else is FP sixteen, which does still give you a useful embedding vector, it's just quantizing from thirty-two bit to sixteen bit resolution, so still a forty point value in those vectors, but, you know, just with a little bit less resolution, and usually that's fine. And this is what HNSW does, actually, by default in the library, so that is HNSW's default vector compression, P sixteen. Just being 16-bit, 4000 bytes as opposed to 2000 bytes. Some more finer points that you might need to know about, how do I choose a sharding strategy when I'm dealing with this stuff? So we talked about sharding earlier, but there are some specific considerations with semantic search. So we need to balance the shard size and our CPU ratio, obviously, like you, you wanna make sure that you have enough CPU horsepower for the number of shards you have as a given. But a more fine point here is that if you're just doing semantic search, those are actually pretty straightforward queries, right? So there's not a whole lot of coordination going on across shards there. So if you're just doing vector search, semantic search, you can get away with larger shards as a result, on the order of thirty to fifty gigabytes. But if you're doing hybrid search, where you're still doing traditional keyword search, you want, you want smaller shards, 'cause you'll be doing more cross-shard coordination for those keyword queries, right? So that's the one to remember. Now, if you're using the serverless version of OpenSearch, this all happens automatically for you, but if you are partitioning your own shards, that is something to know. So again, semantic, larger shards, hybrid, smaller shards. There are also techniques using multiple indexes that can be useful as well. So let's say you are indexing different types of documents or documents from different domains, maybe they deserve their own indices. So that way you can tune performance individually for each type of data, for each corpus of data. And maybe you want different embedding models as well for different types of data. That gives you that flexibility if you have a multi-index approach for your embeddings. Now you're gonna need some sort of a query routing system to pull that off. So I need to know which index do I hit for a given type of data. And one way of doing that is hierarchical indices. So the idea here is that you have a top level index whose only purpose is to route you to a detailed level index for a specific kind of document. That top level one is really small and fast, it just routes you to an index with more detailed data per domain. So again, it's a way of implementing these multiple indices we just talked about that might be specialized for different data types or for different domains, and again, could have their own shard sizes, their own tuning, their own embedding models, whatever it might be. Now there are other ways of doing the same thing, you know, you could imagine a foundation model making that decision for you as well, but this is just a little bit more of a low-level way of doing it. One more thing, the neural plug-in for OpenSearch is a vector store. To know about that. This is just a way to integrate your embedding model directly into OpenSearch in just one pipeline. So the neural plugin for OpenSearch lets you include that embedding model as part of the whole pipeline, so it allows you to connect your embedding model with OpenSearch, so you can just throw text at OpenSearch, it will figure out how to compute the appropriate embedding vector and then do its vector query automatically as one big thing. So if you do want to package everything that you need into OpenSearch itself, that could make it an alternative to using a Bedrock knowledge base because OpenSearch at this moment can just take raw text, you know, do that vector search and give you back the most relevant chunk all within itself by using the neural plugin. Another thing that Neural plugin does, it does integrate with Bedrock, so it allows you to actually call your Bedrock embedding model as part of that search process. So, you don't have to be a raw model where you have to, yeah, you can actually get that from Bedrock to embed that within OpenSearch itself. So, if you want that embedding to happen within OpenSearch, that's what the Neural plugin is for. There's