API calls of the MongoDB refer by their name, so it's good for us to see them. So if you want to write data, you have a few options. You have put item, and when you do a put item, it creates or fully replaces a new item that has the same primary key. It will consume write capacity units, and so the idea is that when we fully replace or creating a new item. The second one is update item, which is a bit different than put item. This one will edit the existing item's attributes or will add a new item if it doesn't exist. So the idea is that with update item, we only edit a few attributes, not every other attribute. So this is different between put item and update item, and we can use it with the time counter that we'll see in this section as well. And then you have a conditional write, which is to accept a write update delete only if a condition is met, and this is helping with concurrent access to items, and we'll see this as well in this section. To read data, we have a get item, and get item is very simple. You use a scan, you read it based on the primary key, and the primary key again can be a hash or a hash plus range, so you have the two options, and you get two modes to read from. So you have the eventually consistent read mode or to have strong consistency read mode, but you need to specify it, it will take more RCU and then maybe a little bit more latency. You can also specify a projection expression in your API, and this projection expression is going to help you receive only a few attributes out of the item ID. Next, we have the query, and the query is to return items based on a key condition expression, which is a partition key, so it must be the equal operator. So you're saying, "Hey, I want to query for judgment three." And also, optionally, a sort key, and because you can sort, they can have equal, less than, over, over than, between, and so on. Then you can specify a filter expression, and this is to add additional filtering after the query operation has been done, but before the data is returned to you. And this is to use with non-key attributes, so you cannot use a filter expression with hash or range attributes. And when the query returns, it's going to be a list of items, obviously, and you have a limit of how many items you retrieve based on the limit query parameter. And either you're going to reach a limit of number of items, or you're going to get up to one megabyte of data. But if you want to get obviously more data over time, you can do pagination on the results and ask for more and more and more. Now you can create a table or a local secondary index or a global secondary index, and we'll see those in the next lectures as well. And finally, you have scan. So get item was for one item, then the query was for a specific partition key and a sort key. And scan items is to read an entire table, and then if you wanted to, you could filter the data, but this is only done client side, so this is very inefficient. So scan is to really export the entire table, and each scan will return up to one megabyte of data, and if you want to keep on reading, then you need to use pagination techniques, so that means page one, page two, page three, and so on. It will consume a lot of RCU because you are reading your entire table, and so therefore, if you want to not impact your normal operations, you need to impact the scan using a limit statement or to reduce the size of the result. And then pause a little bit. And if you want to instead consume a lot of RCUs and do a scan as fast as possible, then for faster performance, you would use a parallel scan. In this case, multiple workers that you define will scan multiple data segments at the same time, which will increase the throughput and RCUs consumed. And if you want to still have a parallel scan and limit its effects, you could use limit queries limit conditions and so on. And then scans can be used with projection expression and filter expression. So projection expression to only retrieve certain attributes and filter expression to change the sort order. Now, if you want to delete data out of DynamoDB, you have the delete item, which is used to delete an individual item, and then you can also do a conditional delete, so delete this item only if Money equals zero. And if you want to delete everything in your table, you have a delete table. So this is to delete the whole table and its item, and it's much quicker than doing a scan and then deleting each every single item on the table, okay? Delete table will just drop everything, and this is something that can come up in the exam if you want to just delete everything, don't do a scan, just use a delete table API. Now, for efficiency purposes, you can actually batch operations in DynamoDB. So you save in latency and you gain efficiency by reducing the number of API calls you do to the database, and all the operations as part of a batch are going to be applied in parallel by DynamoDB for better efficiency. So because you have a batch of operations though, part of the batch can fail. In that case, you will receive the failed items back, and you can retry only these failed items. So in the write mechanism, you have a batch write item, and this allows you to perform up to twenty-five put item and/or delete item in one call. You have up to sixteen megabytes of data written and still have the same limit of four hundred kilobytes of data per item, and you can't update item. You can only do put item or delete item. Now, if you have items that weren't able to be written for whatever reason, usually because of a lack of write capacity Then you will receive back something called unprocessed items, and then you can retry the items within the unprocessed items. So two options to process them correctly, either you use an exponential backoff strategy to keep on retrying with longer and longer time until it succeeds, or if you consistently get these unprocessed items and scaling issues, then of course you need to add right capacity units to allow your batch operations to complete efficiently. For batch get item, you will return items from one or more tables, and you can receive up to one hundred items and up to sixteen megabytes of data, and all these items are going to be retrieved in parallel to minimize latency. Again, if you are missing some items, it's because you may have some unprocessed keys, because you have failed read operations, because you don't have enough capacity. In which case, same idea, you use exponential backoff to retry, or you add read capacity units to increase your read capacity. Also, we have party QL. So we've seen that in DynamoDB, we have specific API calls to do specific things, but sometimes all that you know as a data engineer or whatever, as a developer, may be SQL. And so you can use SQL on DynamoDB by using party QL. So here you have a standard SQL query where you, you know, the order ID and the total from your orders table, and you have a filtering condition and an ordering condition. And so using party QL, you can do the exact same operations we saw before, which is to select, insert, update, and delete data in DynamoDB, but this time instead of doing the DynamoDB specific APIs, you can just use SQL and you can run your queries across multiple DynamoDB tables, but you can't do joins, okay? You can just do the select, insert, update, and delete API, but then you use SQL for writing these calls. So you run SQL queries from the management console or from the NoSQL bench for DynamoDB or from DynamoDB APIs or from the CLI or from the SDK, and the goal of it is really in add new capabilities to DynamoDB because you have the same capabilities, but it's just to use SQL to write these API calls against DynamoDB. So hopefully that makes sense. I hope you liked it, and I will see you in the next lecture.