The database is very well adapted and it's running on GIGS, so it allows you to create databases, the RDS service in the cloud, and these databases will be managed by AWS and get a lot of benefits from it. So what types of database engine are managed by AWS? Well, the first one is PostgreSQL, then we have MySQL, MariaDB, Oracle, Microsoft SQL Server, IBM DB2, and Aurora, which is a proprietary database from AWS that we'll study in depth. So you have to remember the types of engines that are supported by Amazon RDS. So why would we use RDS versus deploying our own database service on top of, say, an instance? Because this is possible. Well, RDS is a managed service, and as such, AWS provides a lot of services on top of just giving us a database. For example, the provisioning of the database is fully automated, and so is the underlying operating system patching. There is continuous backups being made, and you are able to restore to a specific time stamp, point in time restore. you can also have monitoring dashboards to view the performance of your database. You can have read replicas, and we have a dedicated lecture on read replicas in this course to improve read performance. You can set up a multi-AZ, and so we do have also sections on multi-AZ that will be helpful for disaster recovery. You have maintenance windows for the upgrades, and you have scaling capabilities, both vertical, like increasing the instance type, type, and horizontal by adding read replicas. Finally, the storage is backed by EBS, so this is something we already know. But the only thing we don't have is we can't SSH into the instances, the RDS instances. So because this is a managed service, it AWS provides us a service and we don't have access to the underlying EC2 instance, but this isn't too bad because we get all these things that we would have to set up on our own if we wanted to deploy our own database engine on EC2. So here is one feature that can come up in the exam and it is around RDS storage auto-scaling. So the idea is that when you create an RDS database, you can say how much storage you want, for example, you want twenty gigabytes of storage, but say you are using your database a lot and you're about to run out of free space, then with this feature enabled, the RDS storage auto-scaling, RDS will detect that and And we'll scale automatically the storage for you, so you don't have to do any kind of operations, such as taking the database to increase the storage. So the idea is that your application does a lot of read and writes to your RDS database, and then automatically, with a threshold we'll see in a second, then the storage can auto-scale, and that is a feature of RDS, that is a very, very nice feature. So this all is meant to make you avoid the operation of scaling manually your database storage. For this, you need to set a maximum storage threshold, so a maximum limit for how much you want the storage to grow, 'cause you don't want it to grow infinitely, maybe. And you can automatically modify storage if the free storage is less than ten percent of what has been allocated, and the low storage has been lasting for more than five minutes, and six hours have passed since the last modification. If that's the case, then the storage will auto-increase when you enable it. This is very helpful for applications with that have an unpredictable workload, and this supports all database engines for RDS. So that's it for this feature. This is a day in the life of a perfect relationship. Make a reservation Thanks for your time.